---
layout: page
title: Robots Reading Vogue
description: Here I evaluate Robots Reading Vogue. 
---
## Source

King, L. (n.d.). Robots Reading Vogue. Robots reading vogue. Retrieved December 11, 2022, from http://dh.library.yale.edu/projects/vogue/ 

## Evaluation


For this project, I’m looking at Robots Reading Vogue, a DH project by Yale University that is essentially aimed at using the vast corpus of data that is Vogue Magazine to analyze different trends over the years in visual language, content, style, linguistics, and more. It is a great corpus to use because it is the same publication that has multiple different facets (pictures, articles, ads), and thus there are consistencies in the data that might not be true of taking different magazines or different novels or such to analyze trends. The project in itself is quite multifaceted, using different tools to research different things. For example, one sub-project uses visual analysis to look at the covers over the years, and creates and average cover for each decade in Vogue history. Other sub-projects use topic modeling to look at word and topic usage over the years, to see when certain topics were popular in different eras, mapping it with who the editor-in-chief was during each era, seemingly as a way to map different topic emphases to different editors. The goal of the project is seemingly exploratory—the idea came from the fact that there is so much different and deep information encoded in the Vogue magazines over the years, yet with lots of consistency due to it being in one magazine, therefore the goal of the project seemed to be finding out how all of this information could be used to generate information about anything the mind can dream up. Thus, the project can answer a lot of different questions about the fashion industry and magazine industry in general. How have different topics come in and out of (V)ogue over the years, either due to a change in administration or a change in societal norms and topics? Theoretically, you could use this information and contrast it with other magazines if the information exists, and compare how Vogue’s topics over the years have contrasted with, say, TIME. If you’re curious about how different car companies have marketed to the Vogue audience over time, you could look at the Advertisements sub-project, and you could use this data to perhaps make predictions about, say, Ford’s marketing efforts over the years, or the relative density of their advertising across magazines. Honestly, this project is pretty awesome because it is really just a way to learn a bunch of different things using one big corpus. I think that as far as how the project could be improved, really just adding more modes of exploration would make it better, but everything involved in it already is really awesome. What’s nice is that is a really simple layout, and thus all the information is really readable and accessible– nothing is really hiding under jargon or excessive graphs, which makes it really pleasant and informative to look at. I’m excited to see what else comes out of the project in the future, because it seems to be an ongoing project!
