---
layout: post
title:  "Reading Reflection #7: Words and Objects"
date:   "2022-12-05"
categories: posts
---



For this reading reflection, I read the New York Times article about Sato’s project about Japanese internment. I think one of the most salient things I’m thinking about after reading this is the idea of how historians ought to treat the personal belongings of people, both alive and with family alive. I think it is one thing when we are reading the diaries and looking at personal belongings of people who existed long before any records are able to trace them to living people, like ancient Romans, but when we start to talk about the personal belongings of people from the 1800s, 1900s, and modern day, the situation gets a lot more tricky. Even personal published works of people who are dead but having living family may pose difficult ethical issues, as the content discussed may not have been wanted to be released or may paint their legacy in a negative light, etc.
	Of course, another thing I took away from this is the difficult question of using people’s things without or even with their permission. Even though Van Patten legally acquired the diary at some point in the past, does the diary still technically “belong” to him—sure, I assume that the words in the diary are his own property from a copyright perspective, but is the actual object containing the words themselves his own, if they were bought by another person? Since someone else was in ownership of the diary, does he have any right to claim the diary as his own, and stop it from being shown to others? I think that a very obvious and human response to the question is yes, of course, it’s his diary no matter who “owns” it, but I think the question becomes a lot more difficult in other scenarios when it might be a much bigger deal, such as perhaps a person coming into legal possession of a congressperson’s text messages or something like that that might arise in the future. 
	Another thing that's interesting is using living peoples' things as “artefacts” in modern museums. Even though his diary is from a historical time, he was still alive at the time of it becoming a “historical item” and not just a plain old diary. How do we treat things as “historical” if the person connected to it is still alive today? Are all objects in existence worthy of some kind of “historical status” or is there some threshold that makes some object historical, and therefore worthy of study, while another object is just plain junk? I suppose one man’s trash is another one’s treasure, so maybe this isn’t a problem with a hard answer, but I think it is an interesting thought. 
