---
layout: post
title:  "Reading Reflection #1: What are the digital humanities"
date:   "2022-09-25"
categories: posts
---

In reading these chapters about the digital humanities by Gardiner and Musto, I gained a much better understanding of what digital humanities actually is, and all the different ways in which the idea of digital humanities can be manifested. These chapters gave me an understanding of the humanities have grown as a discipline over the past centuries, what counts as “digital humanities,” as it is a very broad category, and the questions that the rise of digital humanities will pose in the future: how can humans remain a part of the study of the humanities as technology becomes a greater part of the field? Are the findings of digital humanities materially different from traditional humanities studies?
I think one of the first major things I took away from the reading was the sort of growth of the humanities as a world of disciplines in relation to the sciences, and the history of how we came to these different columns of study. I was surprised to learn that the sciences pre-dated the humanities in the Western curriculum, at least going back to the more relatively modern era of the Renaissance. It was surprising to learn that the predominant method of study in the Italian Renaissance era was more scientific and practical, such as studying business math, rhetoric and public speaking, writing documents, etc., or the modern day “careerist” education. Springing from that came the humanities curriculum, very influenced by Petrarch, which emphasized the studies of the ancient world in the modern age. I always assumed that the humanities came before the sciences, because I think the general public thinks of the humanities as “traditional” and the more career oriented curriculum as “modern,” but I guess that wasn’t what the state of educational curriculum looked like when the humanities came to be.
Another thing that I thought was interesting was that one of the very first digital humanities projects was for a Jesuit priest who wanted to index the works of Thomas Aquinas. In one way, it makes a lot of sense-- the history of the humanities obviously did take a lot from the study of religion as a main part of it, and it seems only natural that a study of the humanities includes the study of religion. However, I think there is a big part of our culture that sees religion and technology as being in direct opposition to each other, and that technology in many ways goes against some of the ideas of religion. So to see the very first digital humanities project being intertwined with religion was a really surprising mixing of worlds-- especially since the thing that makes the humanities digital, the technology, is not in itself a part of the humanities. 
Two questions I have are: As technology and artificial intelligence becomes exponentially more powerful year after year, what will the role of humans be in analyzing humanities data in say, 10, 20 years? And secondly, should we be using such advanced technology to aid us in the studies of the humanities, or should we limit our use of it in the case that it takes something away from our studies? That is to say, just because we have the power to use it, does that mean we should?
