---
layout: post
title:  "Reading Reflection #5: The Memex"
date:   "2022-12-04"
categories: posts
---
	
I thought Vannevar Bush’s As We May Think was one of the most interesting articles I’ve read in college to date, to be honest. It was so interesting to see how his predictions and thoughts about the future of technology correspond to what we have in 2022, and how visionary he was in the future of technology. He essentially created the ideas of hypertext and links as we know them on the modern internet, but I think the one thing that stood out most to me about the memex is how individualized it is. When we talk about hypertext in the modern usage, we are talking about hypertext that has been codified by a body. Wikipedia as an organization is responsible for deciding what gets linked to what on the website, but Bush’s memex is an individual machine that allows the user to put in their own links–in this way, the memex is a much closer instantiation of the “mind” than any current hypertext system is. I would love to see if there might be some way in the future for our devices to essentially track the processes of our mind– I think about how perhaps I might be reading an article on Safari that then causes me to look up a song on Spotify or send an email to a teacher or something like that. Essentially, I wonder if an AI-tracked “memex” could exist that looks at the jumps that we make around parts of our devices that might be able to track the categorical links in our cognitive networks, if that makes any sense. 
Another key takeaway I had from this article was the shareable aspect of the memex– theoretically you could look at the links of someone’s memex, and compare it with your own memex to essentially see how different peoples’ brains work. If given a corpus of the same documents, you could theoretically track how the links I make between things compare with the links that you make between things in the same documents, and in this way you might be able to come to some really interesting conclusions about the functions of our individual brains and the ways we think/what we think about. You might find that one person tends to make connections between certain people and places, while another person is more interested in the actions, etc.-- it would be a really interesting way to compare people’s thought processes in a data-driven way, if such a capability existed. 
I’ve already posed a few questions, but one more question I have is, what would it actually take to create a memex out of the devices that we already have? Is this idea of a memex a whole different technology in itself, or might there be a way to simply make some kind of software that turns the computer into an individualized memex on the level of Bush’s conception?

