---
layout: post
title:  "Reading Reflection #3: Distant reading"
date:   "2022-10-23"
categories: posts
---

The ideas discussed in these articles about distant reading and the use of technology in the humanities really resonated with me, as someone who has been trying to think about what the benefits and drawbacks of distant reading are. I think one thing that was particularly highlighted in the New Republic reading is the use of tools like Ngrams to look at large scale trends among texts. For another class, I’m actually reading the original essay about Ngrams by Michel referenced in the text, which has got me thinking a lot about the use of tools like Ngrams. One thing that I think really resonated with me was the idea that these tools don’t really promote the same level of deep learning that one would expect out of the humanities. It seems like most of the information understood from these high-level distant reading techniques, like Ngrams or word clouds or what not, are largely confirmatory, or gateways to future research. Many of the ways that these techniques have been proposed to be used can almost fall under the “well, duh” category of research. For example, in the original paper by Michel, he talks about how Google Ngrams can be used to see that in Nazi Germany, nobody mentioned Jewish painters in books. I don’t think that’s a really insightful use of this technology, and really only serves to confirm the things that historians already know. Part of the thing about these technologies is that you kind of already have to know what you’re looking for for the technology to be of any practical use, and even if you do find something interesting, you need to go way deeper into the actual text of what you’re looking at and understand it at a more granular level to get any kind of real understanding—we cannot just look at the algorithmic results and say that we have learned something new, I think.

But another interesting question raised is, what is even the purpose of the humanities, anyways? I think that there are sort of two main parts of studying the humanities. The first way, which I think can be benefitted by distant reading, is historical research into any of the subdisciplines of the humanities—looking into how sentiments, perceptions, etc. changed over time in the various subdisciplines. But the other way of studying the humanities is much more personal growth focused, and cannot be achieved using the same techniques of distant reading. When I personally study the humanities, I am doing it to learn more about other cultures and ways of thought to help expand my own modes of thinking, and to understand different ways of existence in the world. This cannot be achieved using distant reading, because the whole learning part of the humanities in that sense is in the act of reading, pondering over questions, and taking your time to go over hard things in your mind. It’s kind of like exercise—you can’t cheat your way through lifting weights, because the muscles grow when they are under stress. I think the same thing goes for the humanities, which is an idea that has changed my understanding of what we are doing in this class!
