---
layout: post
title:  "Reading Reflection #6: Books, Books, Books"
date:   "2022-12-04"
categories: posts
---


One of my major takeaways from “What is the History of Books” is the idea that books are so fundamental to human history over the past multiple millennia that we think about them in a different way than we do other technologies. Books have been so ingrained into our lives, into everything that we do and everywhere we go that it is nearly impossible to imagine a world without books, even though such a time did exist. This becomes especially interesting when we think about the physicality of books, and how the field of digital humanities is necessarily upending the history of books as we know it. When we talk about processing books in class, we are talking about books in the philosophical sense, of books as being a collection of words– but there is nothing to be said about the physicality of those words. Indeed, when we study books in the digital humanities, we are really studying computer code encoding text files with words, not the actual book which has been so fundamental to academia and the world in general for hundreds and hundreds of years.
This then begs the question, what are we losing out by studying the text files as opposed to studying the books themselves? Is there anything in the physicality of the book that is lost in the text file? It seems that there is, in the sense that there is a lot of information imparted by the book by its physicality that might be lost in the text, that especially has an influence on the perceptions of the people reading it. For example, font, layout, page worn-ness, colors, all make a difference in how a particular text might be perceived by the reader. I always think about this in the sense of book covers, and how particular images may emphasize different parts of a story in a novel, which lead the reader to think about the book in different ways. And in fact, so much of my own reading of novels is influenced by this kind of stuff, in the sense that what I remember most vividly about books years down the line is the “vibe” that I got from them, and that may have a lot to do with the book cover and presentation in itself. I am thinking of two different covers for the Master and Margarita, one being a dark red cat looking out through a window somberly, and the other being a crazy surrealist anthropomorphic cat making a wild face—they emphasize different parts of the book, and might create differences in how the reader reads the text. So my question for others is, what are different ways that the physicality of a book may be important to studying the text itself?
